# hundred-shades-of-color
Create a series of images across the visiable spectrum and video slideshow of the images

Who needs 50 shades of gray or even grey, when you can have double that and more and in color or even colour. 

## What does it take…

One can use a combination of commands, including convert from the ImageMagick suite and a loop in Bash to generate a series of PNG images with a color gradient. 100, a 1000, 1024 x 1024 or any other size you choose.
Why? Well, I was investigating the idea of a light box for color therapy, the starting prices are in the $350 range for something basic. Well, I have a computer,a projector that can project in a brightly lit room, I know code, especially Bash scripting and I know how to use ffmpeg to make PNG files into a slide show video. With that in hand, one can scroll the time scale of the video in something like Celluloid or VLC Player and pause the video to ‘set’ the color. Conveniently this translates to time, which can then be noted for future reference. Problem solved and fun was had with a simple, easy solution and no cost except electricity and an eventually semi-costly projector bulb!

Note: One thing I realized while debugging is that the file names most be in alphanumeric order in order for ffmpeg to convert them in the proper sequence. So image_000.png, image_001.png and so forth. Instead of Image_0.png and so on. Just noting this in case anyone modifies this code in the future.


## Requirements
With a typical Linux install, using Debian one must only install Imagemagick

‘’’ sudo apt-get update
‘’’ sudo apt-get install imagemagick

and possibly ffmpeg

‘’’ sudo apt-get install ffmpeg

# Repo
Inside this repository one will find in the base directory:
color-box.sh – Creates spectrum images in PNG format, default 100 images at 1024 x 1024.


Inside this repository one will find in the color_spectrum_images directory:

generate-mp4-slideshow-from-png.sh which does exactly what the name suggests.
slideshow.mp4 – An example video, 1 frame per second, 100 frames of color.
image_000.png to image_099.png – Example images, 1024 x 1024, 100 across the color spectrum generated by the bash script using convert.


## To use
1. Clone the repository
2. chmod +x color-box.sh and run, modify the number of images and size to your liking.

To make a color spectrum video slide show:

1. cd color_spectrum_images and chmod +x generate-mp4-slideshow-from-png.sh and run and it will create the video called slideshow.mp4. The framerate can be changed via this option -framerate 1, it can be set to fractional numbers like 1/3 to change the frames slower, like once per 3 seconds.

## Notes
Shoutout to Issac Newton for teaching us that white light is a spectrum of all the colors!


